If you got infected by a zombie virus and
only had 48 hours left to live, what would
you do with your baby?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
the characters, see if we can make better
decisions, and ultimately attempt to beat
the Fracking Virus in, Cargo.
If you think you have a better way, let me
know in the comments!
If you like these how to beat videos, consider
subscribing.
We start out following Andy, who’s with
his wife Kay, and his baby, Rosie.
They’re on a float trip through an Australian
river.
They come across another family who’re having
a little birthday picnic, the dad doesn’t
seem too friendly though.
Andy anchors the boat down for the night,
and fishes out a containment assistance package.
Okay, so it’s not a fun little float trip.
He pops the package open, and the text on
the first pamphlet reads, “A guide to help
prepare you and your family to recognize threats
and make smart decisions in dangerous situations.”
I can tell you right now they didn’t read
this at all.
Andy flips past all that extraneous bullshit
until he gets to a big colorful picture he
can actually understand.
It looks like Australia is pretty much annihilated
by now.
To make matters worse, they only have a couple
PB&J’s left.
Andy and Kay are arguing about the plan, which
was originally to float down the river until
they reach a military base with a nearby hospital.
Kay’s second guessing that they will make
it with food running low and the possibility
of the engine failing.
She wants to stop the boat, grab a car, and
head 40km inland to a remote town.
I guess you didn’t understand the big colorful
picture in the pamphlet.
Let me help, you’re traveling down the Murray
River, and according to the red, high infection
zones on the map, you are not outrunning it,
because it’s all around you.
Even though the infection is everywhere, I
do think that heading for the remote town
is a decent option.
By now Andy and Kay have experienced the initial
onslaught of the virus, and have read some
of that pamphlet.
They should know that the zombies are slow,
easy to avoid, and that the virus is transmitted
through bodily fluids.
Driving into a remote town wouldn’t be that
dangerous.
There would be less zombies, and maybe the
town has some unpicked food and supplies.
It could be a decent place to hold out, have
a nice cold pint, and wait for this all to
blow over.
With the zombies being slow and uncoordinated,
it’s likely the military successfully fought
the zombies back.
So I'd still make a pass by the base before
spending months on a potato farm.
What I don’t like is that houseboat.
It can barely push 5-6mph, which makes their
journey to the base take weeks.
Not ideal when food is an issue.
Not only that, but it’s slow speed and the
need to park it each night makes it vulnerable
to zombie attacks.
Just jack a truck, fill it with the gas from
the boat, and since you can go 10 times as
fast as the houseboat, you can check out both
the military base and the town before your
food runs out.
Andy convinces Kay to stay the course, and
they continue floating towards the military
base.
We cut over to a little kid surviving on her
own, using a rock and tree branch to simulate
watching Netflix.
Man, things are pretty dire.
A lot of people would have hung themselves
from a tree before this point.
Andy spots a wrecked boat named Serendipity.
You gotta appreciate the irony.
He jumps on top and sticks an oar down the
hatch with a mirror attached to see if anyone’s
home...clever.
I’d also bang on the side of the boat to
see if I could rustle up a person or zombie
lurking within.
There didn’t appear to be anyone in the
boat, so he hops down into it.
He’s barehanded, which is never a good idea
when looting in the zombie apocalypse.
There’s usually a bathroom in these boats
too.
With his mirror he should be able to see if
the door was closed.
Since it was closed, he should be extra cautious
about a zombie sitting on the toilet.
Andy hits the jackpot and starts bagging the
canned food and wine, but all the commotion
awakens the toilet zombie.
If these were 28 weeks later zombies, Andy
would definitely be dead.
He hightails the goods back to the houseboat
where he reveals the discovery to Kay.
Of course he lies about it being perfectly
safe so she doesn’t freak out about how
dangerous it was.
God forbid you’re honest and say that yah,
it was way too risky and dangerous and that
you shouldn’t have done it, and that you
think there was something in the boat’s
bathroom.
Andy goes off to take a nap, and Kay decides
to sneak off to the wrecked boat.
Why, just why?
Yah, Andy said it’s safe, but there is no
legitimate reason to go back to that boat.
At least Andy had a reason, that they were
running out of food.
But now that they have enough food to continue
their trip down the river without going hungry,
there’s no reason to take these kinds of
risks.
Why does she have to sneak off too, it’s
the apocalypse, a little teamwork and communication
goes a long way.
Kay basically gets killed because she wanted
to surprise her husband with a fucking razor
for his beard, which apparently is a very
pressing issue to her.
At least she got it.
Andy wakes up from his nap, only to find his
bloody mess of a wife in the bathroom with
a severe bite wound on her thigh.
Kay throws on a watch that came with the containment
package, which shows how many hours of life
you have left.
Damn, FitBits have gotten hardcore.
According to Kay’s, she has 48 hours until
she’s a zombie, probably much less considering
how badly she was bitten.
Andy throws all containment considerations
out the window and handles her bloody wound
with his bare hands.
Just don’t itch your eye man.
Kay gives the pamphlet a second read.
It says the infected can’t spread the disease
until symptoms appear, which could be in a
few hours.
Realistically, Kay’s bloody wound is already
contagious, and how fast the virus takes over
the body actually depends on how and where
the disease was transmitted.
It's not like you want to hangout until they
start coughing to quarantine or dispatch them.
The pamphlet also says the auto-injector makes
dispatching the infected as easy and safe
as possible.
Oh that needle isn’t a vaccine, it’s a
way to kill yourself.
Holy shit that needle is intense.
That looks like the needle Nicolas Cage used
in the movie The Rock.
You’re supposed to put it up to your temple
and hit the quick release button if you get
infected.
Wow.
You know the situation is bad when the government
is handing out ways to kills yourself instead
of vaccines or antidotes.
Andy’s in denial about her bite wound, and
thinks a river monster bit her instead.
It’s pretty obvious it was a zombie though.
Ya know, a testing kit would have been nice
to include in the containment assistance package.
I know it’s hard to come to terms with the
fact that she’s a goner, but you can’t
let your denial lead you into making more
bad decisions.
It’s time to say your goodbyes and auto-ject
her from the boat.
He wants to take her to the hospital in the
remote town, because he thinks that she will
bleed to death in a few hours.
If on the offshoot he’s right, and it wasn’t
a zombie that bit her, he thinks the doctors
could stop her from bleeding out.
If he’s wrong and she is infected, well,
she’s dead anyways.
The problem is that his assumptions aren’t
accurate.
Her wound is oozing dark blood, which suggests
veinous bleeding.
Her wound is not life-threatening, and she
will not bleed out in hours.
Veinous bleeding can be stopped with 10 minutes
of direct pressure and leg elevation.
I’d cancel that trip to the hospital, quarantine
her on shore immediately so she doesn’t
spread the disease all over the boat, then
pull out the lawn chair and watch her slowly
turn into a zombie.
The hell it is.
Oh, it’s your call because you got killed
for a Gilette.
The best a man can get is a partner that doesn’t
take unnecessary risks in the zombie apocalypse.
Andy already risked his life to get the food.
You were set.
All you had to do was sit on the boat and
have a glass of wine.
I guess it wasn’t her call as they went
with Andy's idea.
Since there are zombies roaming about, it’s
a good idea to stay in eye contact at all
times, use hand signals, have non-verbal ways
to communicate like clapping rocks together,
have lures to distract zombies with, and having
ranged weapons like spears to defend yourselves
with.
Not an hour into their journey, they run into
burnt corpses, with their heads buried in
the ground and spears buried in their skulls.
Normally, I'd say this is free food for the
iron-stomached survivors, but I don’t think
you can cook off the Fracking Virus so as
enticing as it sounds, eating the fried zombie
corpses probably isn’t a good idea.
We cut back to the lone child again, who’s
storyboarding her next Netflix episode.
She’s housing and feeding a zombie too,
nice.
I bet that won’t be a problem later.
Kay’s leg wound is so severe she’s hopping
around, shopping for baby seats, making toys,
and playing pattycake with her baby.
Did you just forget that you are hours into
an incubation period for an incredibly deadly
and infectious disease that turns people into
zombies, and what you’re doing is fucking
dangerous?
Why the sweet Australian outback fuck would
you touch this sick ass yellow goop.
I’m losing my patience with this chick.
Andy, please dome her with the auto-dispatcher
already.
She’s going to get your baby killed.
Hopefully Kay disinfects her hand before she
touches anyone else, but we know that’s
not gonna happen.
All that stuff about communication, eye contact,
weapons, lures, would’ve been nice to have
with the zombie approaching.
I’ll give her some credit for the turn signal
move, though.
Luckily Andy receives the warning and hops
in the car before the zombie catches him.
I’ve been waiting for a chance to say that
driving 55 mph is the most fuel efficient
speed, and saving gas is definitely a concern
in the apocalypse.
Feels good that this factoid is off my chest,
maybe it will save someone’s life one day,
who knows.
If anything I say in any of my videos ever
leads to your survival, like you were in a
situation and thought, oh, Nerd Explains said
this, and it saved your life, please let me
know.
If it gets you killed, well, nobody will know.
Andy pulls over to check the map, because
Kay apparently can’t work the map while
he drives.
Rosie starts crying because she needs a diaper
change.
Why would you let her do it?
Kay is hours into an infection, and will be
showing severe symptoms anytime now.
She shouldn’t be around you in the car,
nor should she be handling the baby and changing
it’s diaper.
She should be in the trunk so she isn’t
spreading her bodily fluids everywhere.
Oh my fucking god.
That baby could have easily been coughed or
puked on.
Looks like the kids zombie friend breached
containment, who’d have thought feeding
zombies like zoo animals was a bad idea.
Ooh that doesn’t look good.
I don’t think she has 48 hours.
Finally she gets hit with some sense, but
Andy can’t help himself and throws her back
in the car.
He starts speeding down the dirt roads to
get to the definitely abandoned hospital so
he can salvage a few extra hours with his
wife, when out of nowhere a ninja zombie shows
up and causes him to swerve off the road and
into a tree, totaling the truck and his wife.
I’m more sad about the car at this point.
As ridiculous as this was, if you’re in
the apocalypse with roaming zombies everywhere,
maybe keep your eyes on the road.
Andy faints from a panic attack.
When he wakes up, he sees ‘save her’,
written in blood.
And this..
I’m sure she’ll be fine bro, just pull
the tree stump out of her stomach and carry
her to the hospital.
Kay’s transformation into a zombie is complete,
and she bites his arm with her disgusting
yellow crusty mouth.
So she had time to write ‘save her’ in
her own blood, but not to auto-ject herself
before she turned into a zombie with her passed
out husband and baby next to her.
You know Kay, it’d be easier to save Rosie
if you didn’t let yourself turn into a zombie
that attacked us.
Andy finally auto-jects Kay's head, putting
an end to her madness.
He throws Rosie into his backpack, straps
on the grossly inaccurate watch, and heads
out.
The kid baits the zombie away from Andy using
blood handprints.
Why couldn’t you have done that earlier
when your zombie was in the road that the
car was driving down.
Andy makes it to the town and stumbles into
a lady who asks what time is left on his watch,
not like it matters though.
She offers him a spare bed, which is nice,
but come on, 46 hours is only if someone sneezes
on you.
This guy was bit on the arm, by morning he
could be zombified.
Kind of dangerous to have him chilling around.
Off in the distance, aborignal tribes are
shish kebabing and frying zombies.
You know, this isn’t too far off from the
lifestyle I was imagining at the end of the
Assimilate video I did.
Whaddya know, the hospital is derelict.
I’m not sure what Andy’s looking for in
the hospital, it’s not like there’s an
Antidote.
Maybe he’s looking for an easier way to
off himself by ODing on drugs.
I don’t blame him.
Yep, there’s no way this dude is making
it the full 48.
This man just can not get a good shave in.
He wakes up in a makeshift bed with spare
clothes next to him.
It’s pretty clear Etta saved his ass.
She tells him to go find Willie and to avoid
the hunting parties that are hunting the infected.
Why not tell her that Willie was a zombie,
and that the best option would be to leave
Rosie in Etta’s care while Andy enjoyed
his last moments with her, instead of hiking,
fighting zombies, and risking Rosie’s life
even more.
Andy heads off in search of the zombie dad
for god knows what reason.
Ah, he’s trying to make it to the military
base.
Looks like the military didn’t do so hot.
Andy finds another truck to jack, so he can
go check out the destroyed military base I
guess.
He gets really lucky that guy comes in with
the clutch over the shoulder shot.
Yah they are slow, but you can never underestimate
how sneaky those ninja zombies are.
The man tells Andy that the military base
is overrun.
Apparently he got his leg pinned under a canister
of some sort, so he offers Andy a deal.
Help him and he’ll take him back to his
home where his wife can help with Rosie.
Andy agrees, and they haul ass before more
Zombies show up.
Vic lives in a nice gated community, and we
get introduced to his wife.
He doesn’t seem like her type, then again,
it’s the apocalypse.
Andy leaves the baby with Lorraine, and the
boys go on their hunting trip.
Honestly this looks like fun.
This is about as good as the zombie apocalypse
is going to get.
Ohhhh, poor little thoomie.
Thoomie did inadvertently cause you to crash
and get bit by Kay by letting his zombie dad
loose.
Just saying.
Any one of those bullets could have killed
the bait, which is just reckless on Vics part.
It does seem like the blood and meat work
just fine, and you don’t need live bait,
this guys just doing this because he’s a
psycho.
Vic still is one of the only options for securing
a new home for your baby, so it’s probably
not wise to piss him off by expressing your
disapproval.
Back at home, Lorraine is playing with Rosie,
until she makes a terrible discovery.
Ooh maybe letting Kay play with the baby wasn’t
a good idea after all.
Looks like our pal drummed up some more live
bait.
He cranks on some jams, splashes some blood
on the cage, and heads back to base to make
love to his unwilling ‘wife’.
Lorraine didn’t seem to mention that Andy’s
baby is infected, which makes it even more
idiotic that he’s cuddling and kissing her.
Maybe the goo was from Andy, which is still
idiotic because he was getting infectious
zombie goo all over his babies clothes.
You know how much babies put stuff in their
mouths.
The recklessness is just fucking astounding.
Andy starts seizing again, and kisses his
baby on the forehead before heading outside
to dome cap himself.
They really lied on the auto-ject that it
made dispatching easy.
Why not include a poisonous pill or something
instead.
I could easily see someone fucking this up
and holding it too far away or aiming it off
center and accidentally lobotomizing themself.
Lorraine stops him because she wants his help
to get away from Vic.
Andy mentions that there’s a family by the
river that she could take the baby to.
Yah, that dad looked real inviting, it’s
definitely worth the 40km trek back to them,
if they are still even there.
As sucky as it sounds, she just needs to stay
shacked up with this dude, play along, convince
him to teach her how to shoot and hunt so
she can survive on her own, then auto-ject
him while he’s sleeping.
Since Vic caused the death of her real husband,
I think the auto-ject is too painless.
She should save some of that yellow goop on
the baby from earlier and put it in one of
Vic’s meals.
Vic catches them conspiring and rifle butts
him in the head.
Andy wakes up in the cage with Thoomie.
That is probably one of the worst designed
cages I've ever seen.
I get that he might only have access to an
animal cage like that, but why not chain them
to the cage, instead of just to each other.
Andy and Thoomie sneak back into camp to free
Lorraine and Rosie.
Why would you not shoot him?
He’s too dangerous to be left alive.
If during your escape, the baby cries or someone
knocks something over, Vic could still grab
a gun and come out and shoot you, he’s a
pretty good shot too.
Yep, Vic wakes up and rushes outside with
his rifle.
As he draws down on Andy, Lorraine jumps out
to stop him and gets shot dead.
Thoomie and Andy escape and make a stop by
the Clever Man’s cage, but he’s gone.
I’m sure he figured out he could just lift
the cage door and walk out too.
Vic catches up to them and poses an enticing
offer.
I don’t know what they’re waiting for,
Vic sounds like a man who will definitely
honor his side of the deal.
Why is Andy going to sleep with Thoomie and
the baby when he’s in the late stages of
infection, he could turn at any point now.
Wow, Thoomie’s lucky he didn’t go for
her face instead.
And why are you sleeping, you literally have
hours before you’re dead, you need to be
finding a new home for Rosie.
Andy gives Thoomi a reality check, that her
zombie dad is dead and there’s no cure and
the clever man can’t fix her dad.
The talk didn’t go over well, as she tries
to off herself with a rock.
And I thought the auto-ject was a hard way
to commit suicide.
Thoomie and Andy go separate ways and Andy
heads for the river to find the family they
passed by earlier.
With only 9 hours left of life, he’s really
starting to lose it.
Just before Andy buries his head in the ground
like those other zombozos, Thoomie comes to
the rescue.
They miraculously find a boat with an engine
and eventually Andy’s reunited with the
houseboat, memories of Kay, and thoughts of
how this could have gone down differently
if she just poured a glass of wine instead.
It doesn’t seem like things turned out hot
for the family.
You know that dude had a gun, so maybe don’t
sneak into their home and eat their food without
knowing if they’re still around.
I’d yell to see if they were home.
Sure you could attract some zombies, but I'd
rather deal with a zombie than a guy with
a gun.
I’m also still dumbfounded that Andy hasn’t
found something to use as a weapon against
the zombies this whole time.
Thanks doctor thoomie, for the history lesson
about why modern medicine and technology has
rendered your culture obsolete.
They find the river people, but the dad is
digging a mass grave.
The man tells Andy that after he offs his
family with 4 bullets, there will be 2 bullets
left for him and Rosie.
I’d say that Andy should try to take the
gun and stop him, as the wife is the best
chance at Rosie being taken care off.
Andy declines the offer and heads back to
the boat.
If I was going to murder my family to mercy
kill them, I’d fish out an auto-ject and
dome each one while they slept, this way you
wouldn’t have to see the look of horror
on their faces as they don’t understand
why you’re killing them.
While Andy contemplates using the revolver
on himself, Rosie is sucking on his bloody
fitbit.
I feel like you have to really, really, really
try to get this disease, so how did it spread
so fast.
Is that really what’s on your mind right
now, after witnessing a man murder his family
while you had the same gun he used in your
mouth.
They really should have headed to Thoomi’s
tribe instead of the family in a van down
by the river.
Look, that's you in a few hours Andy.
If they needed to hibernate and slow metabolism,
why not lie down instead.
And if they need the dark, why are you taking
me through a dark tunnel.
Unfortunately, they run into Vic again.
Andy pretends to be a zombie, which is really
not a good strat.
If that dude used his rifle like he did earlier
to dispatch the zombies, you’d be screwed.
If the zombies woke up, you’d be screwed.
Andy should have run up on him with the gat
and emptied it in Vic’s chest.
Just before Vic bats his head in, Andy flips
the script and opens fire.
Andy should have fired both rounds, because
Vic grabs the gun and puts a hole in Andy
too.
Vic knocks Thoomie out, and in a fit of rage
almost cranks little Rosie's neck sideways,
but doesn’t because that would’ve made
this movie obscenely dark and disturbing.
Andy helps Thoomie shake off the tweety birds
so they can continue their trek to her family.
He starts succumbing to the disease, and gets
the eye goop and flesh eating libido.
Knowing his death is imminent, they forge
a new plan.
So not only does the government give you a
way to kill yourself, but also shackles and
a mouthguard?
Why, so you can tie up zombies?
Thoomie’s fam is demolishing the zombies,
but why aren’t they wearing more armor?
And why are they waiting until the zombies
get close to kill them, just use the throwing
spears, those seem to be effective.
The zombie piggyback ride is a nice flex,
but Thoomie definitely could have carried
the baby a couple more miles herself.
Seems like an unnecessary risk.
The clever man was out there running zombies
through too, so it’s safe to say he didn’t
have the cure that Thoomie was waiting on
for her dad.
Andy finds mercy at the end of a spear and
the tribe takes the baby into their home.
The movie ends.
Let’s recap some of the big decisions that
could have altered the course of events, and
see who we could save, and whose death was
inevitable.
I’m pretty sure no matter what we did differently,
Kay would find a way to get herself killed,
so i’m putting her on the dead board permanently.
They definitely should have jacked a car instead
of the boat, which means the food wouldn’t
be as much of an issue to go looting wrecked
boats for.
They’d stop by the military base, see that
it was overrun, then head to the remote town
to find Etta and the aboriginals.
There, they could hold out the apocalypse
relatively safely.
So Andy, Rosie, Thoomie, Etta, Vic, Lorraine,
and the Tribe would all be alive.
They’d still have to deal with Vic at some
point, because he was putting them in cages.
His cages didn’t seem hard to escape, so
whoever was captured could free themselves
and gather the tribe to hunt him down and
free Lorraine.
So Vic using people as live bait will probably
still lead to his death.
The river family and willie were dead either
way.
Ultimately, I think we could have beaten Andy
and Kay’s encounter with the Fracking Virus.
Thanks for watching, and remember, lack of
communication is the number one relationship
killer, especially in the apocalypse.